## fork 与 spawn 区别
Windows中无法使用fork，只有spawn

Fork:

- Clones data and code of the parent process therefore inheriting the state of the parent program.

- Any modifications made to the inherited variables by the child process does not reflect back on the state of those variables in the parent process. The states are essentially forked from this point (copy-on-write).

- All the libraries imported in the parent process are available for use in the child processes' context. This also makes this method fast since child processes don't have to re-import libraries (code) and variables (data).

- This comes with some downsides especially with respect to forking multithreaded programs.

- Some libraries with C backends like Tensorflow, OpenCV etc are not fork-safe and causes the child process to hang in a non-deterministic manner.

Spawn:

- Creates a fresh interpreter for the child process without inheriting code or data.

- Only the necessary data/arguments are sent to the child process. Which means variables, thread-locks, file descriptors etc are not automatically available to the child process -- this avoids hard to catch bugs.

- This method also comes with some drawbacks — since data/arguments need to be sent to the child process, they must also be pickle-able. Some objects with internal locks/mutex like Queues are not pickle-able and pickling heavier objects like data frames and large numpy arrays are expensive.

- Unpickling objects on the child process will cause re-import of associated libraries if any. This again adds to time.

- Since parent code is not cloned into the child process, you will need to use the if __name__ == '__main__' guard while creating a child process. Not doing this will make the child process unable to import code from the parent process (now running as main). This is also why your program works when used with the guard.

[在mac或linux多进程使用spawn方式（默认fork）](https://stackoverflow.com/a/66290106)


## 多进程fork方式无法拷贝CUDA张量
    Error: Cannot re-initialize CUDA in forked subprocess. To use CUDA with multiprocessing, you must use the 'spawn' start method